As I always said we're going to dive a lot deeper into navigation on how to use this and different use
cases brought this course when we build real apps.
That's the more fun way anyways.
So we're almost at the end of this basic introduction to the navigation part which is key of course
because it's so important to understand how ironic to works.
There's one thing I want to show you where I want to explain to you though and that is the life cycle
of a page a page and with a page I mean a component which we treat as a page because you load it from
the navigation stack by pushing and popping has certain methods which get executed by ionic too.
And it's important to understand those methods only get executed when there's page so when this component
is loaded by pushing it or by popping to it the methods I'm talking about are the following ones.
The first method executed when a page is loaded is the item you can enter Meffert.
So if we add this method to your page Iyonix you will execute it.
And this method serves as a navigation guard.
It has to return true or false or a promise resolving to True or false which simply allows or denies
the access to the page.
So you can use this to protect a page and to see if a user is allowed to visit this page.
You will see this later in the course when we actually use of vindication.
Let's say we are allowed to access a page the next Hooghly which is then read is the I view did load
method.
This method is executed right after the page has been loaded.
And it's important that this method will not be executed if the page was cached Ionic.
You will cache your pages for example if you have a page and you click on a button which pushes a new
page the page you were on still is on the stack of pages and therefore it is cached.
So if you then click on the back button on the next page and you are therefore taken to the page where
you were before.
It will not be recreated.
It will be taken from the cache.
So I view that load will not be executed.
Each time you see a page it will only be executed if the page is actually treated there after we reach
I-and you will enter.
Now this is executed whenever a page is about to become active no matter if it's taken from the cache
or was newly created after we'll enter we reach.
And you did enter as you might guess it is executed right after the page did become active.
So once you are able to fully see this page.
And just like I am you will enter all the fired and cached.
Well if you want to navigate away we have to you can leave method which is kind of the opposite to do
can enter method.
It all has a navigation Guard which decides if we are allowed to leave a page or not.
So it also has to return true or false or a promise resolving to True or false.
Granted that we are allowed to leave.
We don't reach I and you will leave which is executed right before the page is about to become an active
and then we execute.
I am viewed deadly offered a page became inactive.
Well and if the page is destroyed and not cached then I in view will unload is executed.
So this is a great place to run some code.
You need to do with a Pages destroyed so to do some cleanup and things like that.
Let's see this in action in the next lecture